if you thought the last four years were
difficult the next four will be even
harder you came here for the truth so
let me unveil that for you today what
we're dealing with is an anomaly if you
look at it historically you have seen
times where things have become expensive
we've watched inflation take off but
there have always been periods where
people can simply afford their daily
expenses we have had bubbles in the past
we have looked at basically everything
you could imagine and yet still we are
dealing with circumstances that are only
going to become more challenging I'm
going to talk about those today as well
as the things some of the things that
you can do to hopefully reduce the
impact that these have on your daily
lives does that sound interesting let's
begin you can see this our cost of
living crisis in just 3 years rent and
groceries are up nearly 40%
40% this is talking about Canada but I
know for people in the United States in
Europe and other places we are all
dealing with the same thing everything
has become expensive and so what are
people doing what are the so-called
Solutions well what they're saying here
is that we need to go to the discount
shops we need to buy the noname products
versus the brand name those are small
changes yes they do help but ultimately
the prices will rise and this is the
issue that people just can't get um you
know handled it's because they're doing
what they can but at the same time
they're being burdened they've got a
9-to-5 job they've got family
obligations all these different things
and hey life gets in the way the one
thing that I talk about consistently
here is that we must buy in bulk the
more bulk you buy the more you will save
now that's an obvious thing hey I'll go
to Costco yeah I get that but when you
buy you have to buy in the right you
know at the right places for instance
you can go to the food terminal the food
terminal is where that food comes in
from the farms in a completely different
place it's making its way in it could be
from you know Halfway Around the World
it could be from some other place it
goes to the food terminal and then from
the food terminal that acts as a
distribution center so that could be for
instance um you know for landscapers
they got got flowers and things that's
there but then you also have where the
grocery stores the small grocery stores
pick up their produce over there there's
all kinds of stuff there in fact but
that's where you can get a significant
discount because you're basically
cutting the Minal man out the same thing
of course with Farms but it depends on
where you live obviously so that's just
one thing and if people would do that
they would make a big difference now you
say hey I got a lot of food to buy a
case at a time well well of course you
have to arrange this with other people
who are not completely oblivious to the
circumstances they have found themselves
in this is what you have to do we we are
beyond the point of yeah I'll get there
when no we are there now today I am
losing my mind behind the rosie jobs
numbers Americans are struggling to find
work companies are warrier about hiring
workers compete for fewer spots and a
large share of employees fear layoff
what I have seen over and over again in
fact has been a I mean it's just wild to
see the numbers but there have been so
many positions that I have seen where
the amount of people employed is not
just in the hundreds but in the
thousands thousands of people applying
for jobs and we've got people with mbas
we've got people with master's degrees
these are supposedly Highly Educated
people who cannot find work and the jobs
are not too fantastic either some people
are saying hey I'll just get whatever I
can but it isn't happening for some
people and that is a serious issue right
um they talk about the data and here of
course getting so many applicants and
they could be choosy employers could be
super choosy with who they have right
now Canada's government okay their
spending has growing twice the pace of
the revenue so you you see what's
happening here the situation can't get
better because the government's spending
so much and they are not giving back to
the people we are wasting wasting money
at this time the money that gets spent
doesn't come back to us in the form of
benefits we're not seeing the benefit of
that and as a result things get worse
they go downhill that's why we have to
be absolutely attentive to where each
and every one of our dollars goes to
make sure that we stop the bleeding as
best we can to get out of any bad debt
because that of course is high interest
rate and we want to be out of that and
then we have to make the right decisions
very important stuff all right this is
so this is what I see a big trend of
flex tirement well this is apparently
the future of work Flex retirement has
everything to do with striking a balance
between employees and employ as opposed
to flipping the switch from EMP employee
to retire e and I think what they say
here is you know it's it's good for the
employer this is what they say for the
employer so that when the old guy moves
on that he doesn't take all that
knowledge with him out the door that
he's there part-time and then the new
guy comes in and he's sort of cross
trining him sure for the employer but
what's really happening here is that
people can't afford to retire so yeah
I'm 65 I can't afford to retire and now
I'm working here part-time I don't have
the benefits that I used to and things
are sort of challenging that's what I
see okay a lot of people they can't
afford to retire they have health
complications they have somebody who
they needs them at home the these are
the things of of reality that are not
shared here of course in this article
conditions are worsening expenses are
going going up expect that if if I tell
you that right now I was 100% certain
okay I'm the soothsayer today and I say
that the conditions will get worse and
prices will go up what will you do as a
result of that now start to do the
digging start to take the actions based
on that Canadians receiving unemployment
benefits are up
18% from last year and they're just up
and up and up people need more
Assistance or people are getting more
assistance and that puts an additional
burden of course on the government and
how much they have to pay that's
taxpayer money all right this is talking
about the potential this is you know
they wanted to get this through all
about social security retirement we want
to push the retirement age up and of
course they said absolutely not we're
not going to do that we don't want
people to retire later but we've seen
this before in other countries in Europe
where they basically said hey you know
you were retiring at 65 well then at 67
and then at 68 and then so on and so
forth people I hope that they wouldn't
necessarily just retire and then go sit
on the couch because we know what
happens in that realm when people do
that but if they want to because they
want to go and they want to take care of
this or take care of that or they want
to you know maybe have fun and you know
do their buring every day or do their
exercising every day whatever the case
may be that's a whole different story
but what's Happening Here is people are
destitute in many cases they can't
afford their lives they're doing
anything they can to get by I'm seeing
this all over the place and the
retirement age ultimately will likely
continue to increase it's it's probably
going to be the case there's no way that
governments Canada us wherever that are
going to be able to afford what they
have to because we know so many Baby
Boomers are retiring and there's not
enough new money coming on in to this
Ponzi dollars superpower status at risk
from turmoil at home and abroad I don't
necessarily uh think that this is
entirely true overall uh but we can
debate that over you know what has
happened the dollar is the number one
it's the strongest but it's losing its
position globally that will take a long
time it's eroding we see that it's now
benefits and it's not going to make its
way like if you're paying interest on
that debt whether that interest rate is
higher or moderate or whatever the money
gets paid on the interest before it goes
to your infrastructure to your healthare
to your benefits you got to realize that
people don't think about that they're
like yeah yeah just keep adding that
it's okay it's okay because I'm going to
get everything I want no no no interest
gets paid before you do keep that in
mind this is just talking about the I
mean look at this look how many commas
are here okay that's 167 billion 67
billion added to the US national debt in
20 days even the Citadel CEO is saying
that the government spending is
borderline insanity and in fact I think
it is pure insanity and that's where we
are at today so that's what I'm telling
you here you have these conditions that
have been set up that are going to make
your life continue to be worse unless
you can get a Leap Forward a leap ahead
I have What's called the how to end
Solutions playlist on my YouTube channel
you just scroll down how to in Solutions
click play and you'll get all kinds of
different solutions I have compass
compass is free financial education
every single viewer should have already
gone through Compass or will be doing so
as of this video and you got to share
that with your friends and family I made
that link Compass the money gps.com
click on Compass there is no reference
to my YouTube channel no reference to my
books no reference to Links anywhere so
that you can just send someone to that
page they get the financial education
and they don't know they don't have to
know about the FED they don't have to
know about you know Black Rock none of
that it's just pure Financial education
so you can get that and feel comfortable
of course sharing that with your friends
and family I do appreciate that very
much hit that thumbs up button on the
way out when you do so you are
supporting this channel this is
extremely important got to get the word
out there I want to thank you for that
make sure you check the how-to and
solutions playlist all kind of good
stuff in there and as always I'll see
you tomorrow take care